A peer-to-peer network is a simple network of computers. It first came into existence in the late 1970s. Here each computer acts as a node for file sharing within the formed network. Here each node acts as a server and thus there is no central server in the network. This allows the sharing of a huge amount of data. The tasks are equally divided amongst the nodes. Each node connected in the network shares an equal workload. For the network to stop working, all the nodes need to individually stop working. This is because each node works independently. 

History of P2P Networks
Before the development of P2P, USENET came into existence in 1979. The network enabled the users to read and post messages. Unlike the forums we use today, it did not have a central server. It is used to copy the new messages to all the servers of the node. 

In the 1980s the first use of P2P networks occurred after personal computers were introduced.
In August 1988, the internet relay chat was the first P2P network built to share text and chat.
In June 1999, Napster was developed which was a file-sharing P2P software. It could be used to share audio files as well. This software was shut down due to the illegal sharing of files. But the concept of network sharing i.e P2P became popular. 
In June 2000, Gnutella was the first decentralized P2P file sharing network. This allowed users to access files on other users’ computers via a designated folder.
Types of P2P networks
Unstructured P2P networks: In this type of P2P network, each device is able to make an equal contribution. This network is easy to build as devices can be connected randomly in the network. But being unstructured, it becomes difficult to find content. For example, Napster, Gnutella, etc.
Structured P2P networks: It is designed using software that creates a virtual layer in order to put the nodes in a specific structure. These are not easy to set up but can give easy access to users to the content. For example, P-Grid, Kademlia, etc. 
Hybrid P2P networks: It combines the features of both P2P networks and client-server architecture. An example of such a network is to find a node using the central server.
Features of P2P network 
These networks do not involve a large number of nodes, usually less than 12. All the computers in the network store their own data but this data is accessible by the group. 
Unlike client-server networks, P2P uses resources and also provides them. This results in additional resources if the number of nodes increases. It requires specialized software. It allows resource sharing among the network. 
Since the nodes act as clients and servers, there is a constant threat of attack. 
Almost all OS today support P2P networks. 
P2P Network Architecture
In the P2P network architecture, the computers connect with each other in a workgroup to share files, and access to internet and printers. 

Each computer in the network has the same set of responsibilities and capabilities.
Each device in the network serves as both a client and server.
The architecture is useful in residential areas, small offices, or small companies where each computer act as an independent workstation and stores the data on its hard drive. 
Each computer in the network has the ability to share data with other computers in the network.
The architecture is usually composed of workgroups of 12 or more computers. 
How Does P2P Network Work?
Let’s understand the working of the Peer-to-Peer network through an example. Suppose, the user wants to download a file through the peer-to-peer network then the download will be handled in this way:

If the peer-to-peer software is not already installed, then the user first has to install the peer-to-peer software on his computer.
This creates a virtual network of peer-to-peer application users.
The user then downloads the file, which is received in bits that come from multiple computers in the network that have already that file.
The data is also sent from the user’s computer to other computers in the network that ask for the data that exist on the user’s computer.
Thus, it can be said that in the peer-to-peer network the file transfer load is distributed among the peer computers.
